# Ticks

Ticks are the 'ruler lines' that show up before, after or before and after the slide bar in the slider component. 

## Generated ticks versus custom ticks

They can be autogenerated or specified by hand. The autogeneration algorithm gets a few
props that specify the distance between then and which ones have lables and which ones don't. The output of the algorithm is a set of objects like `{type, value}`. If you want to specify your own ticks, they need to be specified in a similar fashion to the results of the autogenerated values.


## Types of ticks

Ticks are of two types. Big and small. The `big` ticks are considered big because they have labels attached to them, while the small ones don't. 

## Tick props

### tickLabels 

- defaults `true`
- can be `true` or `false`

By default, `big` ticks have labels. We can disable this by setting `tickLabels={false}`. This will still render the big ticks, but will ignore any label rendering logic.

```jsx
<RangeSlider tickLabels={false}/>
```

[ticks with no labels example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#noTickLabels)

### tickStep

- defaults to `50`
- must be positive number

Specifies the distance between each big tick for the auto generated ticks algorithm. This means that the slider will render a tick with a label ever 50 units in the given interval, starting with `startValue` and ending at the last multiple of `50` that is contained between `startValue` and `endValue`.

```jsx
<RangeSlider tickStep={8} startValue={-7} endValue={17}/>
```

[ticks with no labels example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#tickStepExample)

```jsx
<RangeSlider tickStep={8} startValue={0} endValue={68}/>
```

[ticks with no labels example 2](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#tickStepExample2)

### smallTickStep

- defualts to `10`
- must be positive number

Specifies the distance between small ticks. These ticks don't have labels attached and can never have lables attached to them. They work in a similar way to the normal `tickStep` generated ticks, starting at `startValue` and ending at the last multiple of `smallTickStep` contained in the [`startValue`, `endValue`] range.

The particularity of this prop is that it gets overwritten by the `tickStep` when both a `big` tick and a `small tick` overlap. If we have big ticks every `10` units and small ticks every `5`, we will see the big steps on positions that are multiple of 10.

```jsx
<RangeSlider style={{width:500}} tickStep={10} smallTickStep={5}/>
```

[small ticks step example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#smallTickStepExample)

### skipEdgeTicks

- defaults to `false`
- can be `true|false`

If set to true it will make the tick generation algorithm skip the first and last tick. This is useful if we want to avoid the visual inconsistency caused by rendering a tick for a tick bar that has rounded corners. 

### ticks

- can be array of numbers or object containing `value` and `type`=`big|small`

A set of ticks to be rendered insted of the autogenerated ones. If this prop is specified, the `smallTickStep` and `tickStep` props will be ignored. 

[custom ticks example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#customTicksExample)

### tickBarPosition

- defaults to `end`
- can be `start|end|both|none`

Will render the ticks before, after or before and after the slide. 

If set to `none` it will not render any ticks. 

```jsx
<Slider tickBarPosition='none'/>
```

[not ticks example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#noTicksExample)

### tickStyle

- defaults to `{}`
- must be an object containing react css declarations

Will apply the given style to all ticks.

```jsx
<Slider tickStyle={{backgroundColor:'lightgreen', boxShadow:'0 0 1px 1px rgba(0,255,0,.3)'}}/>
```

[tickStyle example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#tickStyleExample)


### renderLabelContet

- defaults to `(domProps, {tickValue}) => (<span {...domProps}>{tickValue}</span>)`
- must be a function that receives two parameters, first one being `domProps`, the props needed for the dom rendering and the second one containing the value for the given tick. 

This method allows us to write custom labels with extra content or something completely different instead of the numbers of the ticks. 

```jsx
const customIcon = (
  <svg fill="#000000" height="32" viewBox="0 0 24 24" width="32">
      <path d="M0 0h24v24H0z" fill="none"/>
      <path d="M12 5V1L7 6l5 5V7c3.31 0 6 2.69 6 6s-2.69 6-6 6-6-2.69-6-6H4c0 4.42 3.58 8 8 8s8-3.58 8-8-3.58-8-8-8z"/>
  </svg>
)

<Slider
  renderTickLabel={(domProps, {tickValue})=>(
    <div {...domProps} style={{width:32, position:'relative', marginLeft:-10}}>
      {customIcon}
      <span style={{
        position: 'absolute',
        top: '0',
        bottom: '0',
        left: '0',
        right: '0',
        height: '24px',
        width: '22px',
        margin: 'auto',
        textAlign: 'center',
        lineHeight: '24px',
        fontSize: '8px',
        fontWeight: 'bold'
      }}>{tickValue}</span>
    </div>
  )}
/>
```

[custom tick labels example](http://zippiui.github.io/react-slider/#customLabelExample)